It's possible to explore Bitcoin data not only from websites and block explorers,
but directly from a command line.
Understanding how to do this is a huge step
towards programming your own blockchain applications.
In this video, we'll familiarize you with one way to
do this using the Bitcoin Core Debug console.
We'll introduce some of its core features and get you started with a few of its commands.
The debug console assist with debugging efforts and
provides a window to the Bitcoin Core RPC console.
The RPC console is essential to back-end services with Bitcoin blockchain.
It also allows you to investigate the blockchain as new blocks are introduced.
Now let's go ahead and start using it.
To access the console,
first go to your Bitcoin core client.
From there, navigate to help in the top menu bar,
then select debug window.
Here you should see a screen similar to ours welcoming you to the console.
It also includes a warning message about being cautious when running commands.
We recommend that while testing these features,
you continue to use wallets that are not connected to any actual Bitcoin value.
Please be careful.
If you're connected to a wallet that is not storing information,
there should be no problems with experimenting using the console.
Down at the bottom of the screen,
you'll see a place to input commands.
This is how you interact with the console.
A great way to start is with the help command.
Select the command prompt,
type "Help" and click "Enter."
What you see now is all of the available commands,
you can use to navigate the blockchain with this tool.
There's a lot of commands here,
but to help you out, they split them up into a few main categories.
These categories are Blockchain, Control, Generating,
Mining, Network, Raw transactions, Util and Wallet.
Note that whenever you see something following the command and the help menu,
it means that the console is expecting
some extra input from you to return the information you request.
Each of these commands are pretty clearly laid out to allow
you to easily experiment based on what you're interested in.
You can get the details on any of these commands by typing Help,
followed by the name of the command.
We'll use the Help function pretty extensively as we
review these commands in more detail throughout the lesson.
Try a few of them for yourself to get
more information about any of the commands on the list.
So there's some basics to get you started with the debug console.
This is a really interesting tool that allows you to
explore a ton of data on the blockchain.
Remember, the Help command is your best friend here.
You can always use this to explore more information about each of these commands,
but we're definitely not done walking through the different commands available.
We'll be going through more of these throughout the lesson.